[MUSIC PLAYING]
ADDY: A topic
that's come up a lot
recently is
server-side rendering.
MATT: Yeah.
ADDY: And it's a hot topic.
MATT: Hot topic.
ADDY: Hot topic.
Lots of nuance, lots
of opinions around it.
MATT: Yeah, lots of feelings.
ADDY: What is
server-side rendering?
MATT: In a nutshell,
server-side rendering is--
and this is
particularly important
for JavaScript-heavy
client side apps.
You take your application,
and you think of it
almost like you pre-boot
it up on the server.
So you stamp out
all the dom nodes.
You get everything
kind of in place.
You have your CSS in place
so it paints really fast.
And you send all that
down to the client,
and you get a really
nice, fast first paint
because everything is just
already there in the document.
ADDY: Right, but it
comes with a cost.
MATT: Indeed.
ADDY: If you're server-side
rendering something,
it's going to potentially
improve a few metrics,
like potentially first paint,
first meaningful paint,
first contentful paint,
how quickly people
get text on the screen.
But it also comes at the
cost of you shipping down
a much larger payload of
HTML to know your users.
MATT: Absolutely.
ADDY: And that can
have the impact
of pushing out everything else,
including your JavaScript.
So you get this really
fast first paint
showing people
something on the screen.
MATT: You can see it.
ADDY: You can see it, but
then you can't necessarily
interact with it.
It's like you end up
on a shopping page.
It renders really
quickly, and then you
start tapping on buttons.
And unless everything is
end-to-end server-side
rendered, the user
might have bits
of the experience that are not
necessarily complete or ready.
So it's a trade-off.
MATT: And I've
experienced this recently.
I was driving through
the woods and was
on a way slower mobile
connection than I usually am.
And yeah, I landed
on a page, and I
knew it was server-rendered
because I was like,
I can't click on any of
this, and I knew exactly why.
And it can be frustrating.
ADDY: It can be.
I mean, for different
verticals, maybe
server-side rendering
makes sense.
MATT: Totally.
ADDY: If I'm a publisher,
I might care more--
really heavily about making
sure the article text
can be seen pretty
early on, but people
use server-side rendering for
lots of different reasons.
So some people use it to
optimize those metrics.
Other people will do
it because they're
trying to make sure that
Googlebot and search
crawlers can see their content.
MATT: Especially because not
all crawlers can run JavaScript.
ADDY: So we've said--
Google has said that the crawler
can understand JavaScript
to some extent, and that's
great and everything.
What I recommend,
if folks are unsure,
is to go check out
the Webmaster Tools.
There's a little tool
there that let's you--
MATT: Fetches Google.
ADDY: Fetches Google-- that
lets you render your page
the same way that the
Googlebot would, and we now
know that that's
powered by Chrome 41.
MATT: Chrome 41.
ADDY: We got some
docs on that now.
MATT: We can leave them
down in the show notes.
ADDY: We'll link them
up in the magic boxes.
And that's great, but you
should check that out.
See if it's actually
busted in any way before--
MATT: It can be surprising
because you're like, oh, it
runs JavaScript, so I'm
just going to assume
it runs latest JavaScript.
And that is not always the case.
ADDY: No.
Chrome 41 came out a while back.
MATT: Yeah, exactly.
It's probably old enough
to drive at this point.
ADDY: And so there
are definitely
times when I forget to include
polyfills for search crawlers.
Like you sometimes
need to-- you can
polyfill things like promises
depending on the crawler.
So people should
just be careful.
MATT: I think, actually,
in the article,
you mention there are
even some debugging tips
because you do Fetches
Google, and you might just
see a blank page.
And it's hard to know then,
OK, well, what's missing?
Is my application actually
broken, or like you're saying,
am I missing a polyfill?
So there are some
tips in there how
you can kind of debug that
and figure out which is it.
I've totally been
bitten by this before.
I was missing a web
animations polyfill once.
And I was just like, I guess
this whole thing is just
broken.
And I was able to debug it.
And I was like, oh, I just
need to include this one file.
ADDY: So it may not be
quite as complex and broken
as folks think.
There are some possible ideals.
I know that, when some
people are thinking
about building mobile
websites, progressive web apps,
we'll tell them that the
architecture pattern of choice
is the application shell because
you can easily cache pieces
of your UI that don't
need to be fetched
from the network
on repeat visits.
It improves your
performance, and so on.
But then they're
like, well, yeah,
but I kind of need
to server-side
render my content, too,
because I've A/B tested,
and server-side rendering
is improving my SEO,
and it starts to get a
little bit complicated.
I mean, one possible
balance you could
find there is use your
architecture of choice--
your performance architecture
of choice for your normal users,
and then conditionally serve
the server-side rendered version
to Googlebot or other
search crawlers.
MATT: Do a little
UA sniffing maybe?
ADDY: I didn't say that.
MATT: I didn't say that.
Well, actually, I did say that.
ADDY: That's OK.
Matt said that.
MATT: Matt said that.
ADDY: Matt said it.
MATT: There we go.
ADDY: So folks should be--
there's a lot of
nuance to this problem.
We're not talking about it
in terms of performance.
I know that everyone is going to
have different things that they
care about.
Just take a holistic look
at server-side rendering
and where there are trade-offs,
where maybe just using it
for SEO over other things
might make sense, and just
use your tools.
Measure.
MATT: Exactly.
Tools, not rules.
ADDY: Tools, not rules.
MATT: That's what
the smart kids say.
ADDY: Is there a
sign-off of some sort
you had for this episode?
MATT: It's totally time for
the end of the episode now.
Thanks for watching
"Totally Tooling Tips."
[DING]
[MUSIC PLAYING]